===== PAGE 1 =====
Central Drugs
Direct
Minis
(Medica
File No: 29/Misc/03/2019-DC (1
Minimed™ Paradigm™(MMT-7
Veo™(MMT-754) Insulin Pumps
The MiniMed™ 508 insulin pum
designed to communicate using
a blood glucose meters, glucose
US FDA issue safety alert on
healthcare providers that “Cer
Cybersecurity Risks”.
The MiniMed™ Paradigm™ seri
754) are designed to communica
such as a blood glucose meter,
Security researchers have identi
insulin pumps. An unauthorized
potentially connect wirelessly t
insulin delivery.

Medical Directors/Healt

Distributors and the Use

Staff involved in the man

Check to see if the mode

Talk to your health care
cybersecurity protection

Keep your insulin pump
control at all times when
DEVICE
BACKGROUND
PROBLEM
ACTION BY
ACTION
s Standard Control Organ
torate General of Health Services
stry of Health and Family Welfare
Government of India
al Devices and Diagnostics Division)
Email: ddcimd-cdsco@nic.in
Food & Drugs Admin
Kotla
100)
MEDICAL DEVICE ALERT
715, MMT-712 & MMT-722) and MiniMed™
s.
mp and the MiniMed™ Paradigm™ series insulin
g a wireless radio frequency (RF) with other devi
sensor transmitters, and CareLink™ USB devices
27.06.2019 indicating the warning to the pa
rtain Medtronic MiniMed Insulin Pumps Have
ies insulin pumps (MMT-715, MMT-712, MMT-
ate using a wireless radio frequency (RF) with ot
, glucose sensor transmitters, and CareLink™ U
ified potential cybersecurity vulnerabilities relate
d person with special technical skills and equip
to a nearby insulin pump to change settings a
hcare professionals
ers
nagement of patients.
el and software version of your insulin pump is af
provider about a prescription to switch to a mod
n.
and the devices that are connected to your pum
never possible.
nization
istration Bhavan,
Road, New Delhi.
Date: 2nd July 2019
Paradigm™
pumps are
ces such as
s.
atients and
e Potential
-722, MMT-
ther devices
SB devices.
ed to these
ment could
and control
ffected.
del with more
mp within your

===== PAGE 2 =====

Do not share your pump serial number.

Be attentive to pump notifications, alarms, and alerts.

Monitor your blood glucose levels closely and act appropriately.

Immediately cancel any unintended boluses.

Connect your Medtronic insulin pump to other Medtronic devices and software only.

Disconnect the USB device from your computer when you are not using it to download data
from your pump.
An unauthorized person with special technical skills and equipment could potentially
connect wirelessly to a nearby insulin pump to change settings and control insulin delivery.
Important Note: CDSCO have not received any complaints from the market on this issue.
India Medtronic Pvt. Ltd. had issued a FIELD SAFETY NOTIFICATION on MiniMed™ Paradigm™ Series
Insulin Pumps Cybersecurity Concerns on June 27, 2019 which is attached herewith this alert.

India Medtronic Pvt. Ltd.,
4th Floor, Tower A & B, SAS Tower,
The Medicity Complex, Sec-38, Gurugram-122001
Direct line: +91-0124-470 9800
FURTHER DETAILS & CONTACTS
ADVERSE EFFECTS

===== PAGE 3 =====
Medtronic
18000 Devonshire St.
Northridge, CA 91325
www.medtronicdiabetes.com
!
URGENT FIELD SAFETY NOTIFICATION
MiniMed™ 508 Insulin Pump and MiniMed™ Paradigm™ Series Insulin Pumps
Cybersecurity Concerns
June 27, 2019
Dear Valued Customer:


You are receiving this letter because our records indicate you may be using a MiniMed™ 508
insulin pump or a MiniMed™ Paradigm™ series insulin pump.  Because your safety is our top
priority, we are making you aware of a potential cybersecurity risk.
Potential cybersecurity risk:
The MiniMed™ 508 insulin pump and the MiniMed™ Paradigm™ series insulin pumps are designed
to communicate using a wireless radio frequency (RF) with other devices such as a blood
glucose meters, glucose sensor transmitters, and CareLink™ USB devices.
Security researchers have identiﬁed potential cybersecurity vulnerabilities related to these
insulin pumps.  An unauthorized person with special technical skills and equipment could
potentially connect wirelessly to a nearby insulin pump to change settings and control insulin
delivery. This could lead to hypoglycemia (if additional insulin is delivered) or hyperglycemia and
diabetic ketoacidosis (if not enough insulin is delivered).
IMPORTANT NOTE:  At this time, we have received no conﬁrmed reports of unauthorized
persons changing settings or controlling insulin delivery.
ACTION REQUIRED:
For US Patients:
Due to this potential cybersecurity issue, we recommend that you speak with your healthcare
provider about changing to a newer model insulin pump with increased cybersecurity
protection, such as the MiniMed™ 670G insulin pump.
If you and your healthcare provider decide that updating to a newer insulin pump model is the
right decision for you, please call Medtronic at 1-866-222-2584 or go to (https://
info.medtronicdiabetes.com/legacyexchange) to explore your options and to begin the
replacement process.
In the meantime, we recommend you take the cybersecurity precautions included below.
For Patients outside the US:
You will receive a notiﬁcation letter with instructions based on the country you live in.  We
recommend that you speak with your healthcare provider to discuss the cybersecurity issue and
the steps you can take to protect yourself.  In the meantime, we recommend you take the
cybersecurity precautions included below.
930M19927-011 12JUN2019 ©2019 Medtronic. All rights reserved. Medtronic, Medtronic logo and Further, Together are
trademarks of Medtronic. All other brands are trademarks of a Medtronic company.

===== PAGE 4 =====
Medtronic
18000 Devonshire St.
Northridge, CA 91325
www.medtronicdiabetes.com
!
If you live in a country that does not have a newer model Medtronic insulin pump available to
you, you should take the cybersecurity precautions included below to minimize the potential for
a cybersecurity attack and to continue to take advantage of the beneﬁts of insulin pump
therapy.
CYBERSECURITY PRECAUTIONS RECOMMENDED FOR ALL PATIENTS
▪
Keep your insulin pump and the devices that are connected to your pump within your
control at all times
▪
Do not share your pump serial number
▪
Be attentive to pump notiﬁcations, alarms, and alerts
▪
Immediately cancel any unintended boluses
▪
Monitor your blood glucose levels closely and act as appropriate
▪
Do not connect to any third-party devices or use any software not authorized by
Medtronic
▪
Disconnect your CareLink™ USB device from your computer when it is not being used to
download data from your pump
▪
Get medical help right away if you experience symptoms of severe hypoglycemia or
diabetic ketoacidosis, or suspect that your insulin pump settings, or insulin delivery
changed unexpectedly
The following pump models ARE vulnerable to this potential issue:
To ﬁnd the software version for the MiniMed™ Paradigm™ pumps, go to the STATUS screen:
▪
To open the STATUS screen, press ESC until the STATUS screen appears.
▪
To view more text on the STATUS screen, press the up or down arrow to scroll and view
all the information.
▪
To exit the STATUS screen, press ESC until the STATUS screen disappears.
Insulin Pump
Software Versions
MiniMed™ 508 pump
All
MiniMed™ Paradigm™  511 pump
MiniMed™ Paradigm™  512/712 pumps
MiniMed™ Paradigm™  712E pump
MiniMed™ Paradigm™ 515/715 pumps
MiniMed™ Paradigm™ 522/722 pumps
MiniMed™ Paradigm™ 522K/722K pumps
All
All
All
All
All
All
MiniMed™ Paradigm™  523/723 pumps
MiniMed™ Paradigm™  523K/723K pumps
Software Versions 2.4A or lower
Software Versions 2.4A or lower
MiniMed™ Paradigm™ Veo™ 554/754 pumps
MiniMed™ Paradigm™ Veo™ 554CM/754CM pumps
Software Versions 2.6A or lower
Software Versions 2.7A or lower
930M19927-011 12JUN2019 ©2019 Medtronic. All rights reserved. Medtronic, Medtronic logo and Further, Together are
trademarks of Medtronic. All other brands are trademarks of a Medtronic company.

===== PAGE 5 =====
Medtronic
18000 Devonshire St.
Northridge, CA 91325
www.medtronicdiabetes.com
!
These pump models are NOT vulnerable to this issue:
You may also read the FDA’s Safety Communication (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/
safety-communications/2019-safety-communications) about this potential cybersecurity risk.
We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.  Your safety and satisfaction are our top
priorities.  We appreciate your time and attention in reading this important notiﬁcation.
As always, we are here to support you. If you have further questions or need assistance,
please call our 24-Hour Technical Support at: 1-800-646-4633.
Sincerely,
"

James Dabbs
Vice President, Quality Assurance
Medtronic Diabetes
Insulin Pump
Software Versions
MiniMed™ 620G pump
MiniMed™ 630G pump
MiniMed™ 640G pump
MiniMed™ 670G pump
All
All
All
All
930M19927-011 12JUN2019 ©2019 Medtronic. All rights reserved. Medtronic, Medtronic logo and Further, Together are
trademarks of Medtronic. All other brands are trademarks of a Medtronic company.
